# kubernetes-cli-console-study-2021

Kubernetes is an open-source platform for managing containerized workloads and services. According to the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) 2020 survey, Kubernetes use in production has increased to 83%, up from 78% in 2019. However, prevalent Kubernetes surveys such as the CNCF survey neither report on the types of tools that developers prefer to use for Kubernetes, nor the types of Kubernetes tasks that they frequently work on. To help fill this knowledge gap, we composed a survey asking how frequently developers work on Kubernetes CRUD, debugging, and monitoring tasks and whether they prefer to use CLIs, consoles, or IDEs when working on those task types. We collected survey responses from X developers that used Kubernetes in their work, of which X number were novice users, X number were intermediate users, and X number were expert users. Our survey results indicate that for Kubernetes CRUD and debugging tasks, X number developers prefer to use X tool, while for Kubernetes monitoring tasks, X number developers prefer to use X tool. Of the X level of experience developers, X number prefer to use X tool for Kubernetes CRUD and debugging tasks and X number prefer to use X tool for Kubernetes monitoring tasks. To more deeply understand why developers prefer to use certain tool modalities for Kubernetes CRUD, debugging tasks, and monitoring tasks, we conducted a within-subjects, remotely moderated user study with X participants that performed a Kubernetes task using the kubectl CLI and the OpenShift web console. We evaluated user interactions by counting lower level interactions such as the number of executed commands, clicks, and mouse movements on each tool interface as a measure of exhaustion and recorded higher level interactions such as copy/paste and navigation subtasks as regular expressions to illustrate how frequently participants switched between the mouse and keyboard as a measure of disruption. In support of our survey, we found that more experienced developers, with the exception of Kubernetes monitoring tasks, prefer to use CLIs over consoles due to associated costs of exhaustion and disruption. We share participant recommendations for improving each tool interface and our own design insights observed from our study to further contribute to this gap in research and inform the future design of Kubernetes tool interfaces.
